.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2022 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd Friday 21, 2022
.Dt GNUNET-NAMESTORE-ZONEFILE 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-namestore-zonefile
.Nd Import GNU Name System (GNS) zone data using zonefiles.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl v | -version
.Op Fl z Ar EGO | Fl -zone= Ns Ar EGO
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
can be used to manipulate records in a GNS zone.
.Pp
The zonefile is read from standard input.
.Pp
$ORIGIN entries in the zonefile will be treated as ego names (without the trailing ".") and created if missing.
.Pp
To implicity give an initial $ORIGIN, use the --ego flag.
.Pp
All records will be created public and with relative expiration times set to the value provided in $TTL entries.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the configuration file FILENAME.
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.It Fl z Ar EGO | Fl -zone= Ns Ar EGO
Specifies the name of the ego controlling the private key for the
zone. If not provided, we will attempt to use the default identity set
for the "namestore". Alternatively, a private key may be passed in
Base32-encoding using the GNUNET_NAMESTORE_EGO_PRIVATE_KEY environment
variable. The latter is useful to improve performance of tools like
Ascension as it allows the command to skip IPC with the identity
management subsystem.
.El
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.\".Sh FILES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-gns 1 ,
.Xr gnunet-namestore 1
.sp
The full documentation for GNUnet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
