.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2023 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd January 5, 2023
.Dt GNUNET-MESSENGER 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-messenger
.Nd Open and connect to rooms using the MESSENGER service to chat.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl d Ar PEERIDENTITY | Fl -door= Ns Ar PEERIDENTITY
.Op Fl e Ar IDENTITY | Fl -ego= Ns Ar IDENTITY
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar LOGFILE
.Op Fl p | -private
.Op Fl r Ar ROOMKEY | Fl -room= Ns Ar ROOMKEY
.Op Fl v | -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command line tool to connect to rooms using the MESSENGER service to chat.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the specified configuration file
.Ar FILENAME .
.It Fl d Ar PEERIDENTITY | Fl -did= Ns Ar PEERIDENTITY
peer identity to entry into the room.
.It Fl e Ar IDENTITY | Fl -ego= Ns Ar IDENTITY
identity to use for messaging
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar LOGFILE
Configure logging to write logs to
.Ar LOGFILE .
.It Fl p | -private
flag to enable private mode.
.It Fl r Ar ROOMKEY | Fl -room= Ns Ar ROOMKEY
key of the room to connect to.
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook.
.sp
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
