.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2023 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd January 5, 2023
.Dt GNUNET-DID 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-did
.Nd command line tool to create and manage gnunet identity DIDs.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl A | -show-all
.Op Fl C | -create
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl d Ar DID | Fl -did= Ns Ar DID
.Op Fl D Ar DID_DOCUMENT | Fl -did-document= Ns Ar DID_DOCUMENT
.Op Fl e Ar EGO | Fl -ego= Ns Ar EGO
.Op Fl g | -get
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar LOGFILE
.Op Fl r | -remove
.Op Fl R | -replace
.Op Fl s | -show
.Op Fl t Ar TIME | Fl -expiration-time= Ns Ar TIME
.Op Fl v | -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a command line tool to create and manage gnunet identity DIDs.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl A | -show-all
List all DIDs for all egos.
.It Fl C | -create
Create a DID Document and display the DID.
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Use the specified configuration file
.Ar FILENAME .
.It Fl d Ar DID | Fl -did= Ns Ar DID
The to use for the operation is 
.Ar DID .
.It Fl D Ar DID_DOCUMENT | Fl -did-document= Ns Ar DID_DOCUMENT
The DID Document to use is
.Ar DID_DOCUMENT .
.It Fl e Ar EGO | Fl -ego= Ns Ar EGO
The ego to use is
.Ar EGO .
.It Fl g | -get
Get the DID Document associated with the DID given in
.Ar DID .
.It Fl h | -help
Print short help on options.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Use LOGLEVEL for logging.
Valid values are DEBUG, INFO, WARNING and ERROR.
.It Fl l Ar LOGFILE | Fl -logfile= Ns Ar LOGFILE
Configure logging to write logs to
.Ar LOGFILE .
.It Fl r | -remove
Remove the DID given in --did.
.It Fl R | -replace
Replace the DID Docuemnt given in --did-document for the DID given in
.Ar DID .
.It Fl s | -show
Show the DID for the ego given in --ego.
.It Fl t | -expiration-time
The expiration time to use in the GNS record for the DID Document given in
Ar. DID_DOCUMENT .
.It Fl v | -version
Print GNUnet version number.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook.
.sp
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
