.\" This file is part of GNUnet.
.\" Copyright (C) 2024 GNUnet e.V.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A
.\" copy of the license is included in the file
.\" FDL-1.3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.
.\"
.\" Alternately, this document is also available under the General
.\" Public License, version 3 or later, as published by the Free Software
.\" Foundation.  A copy of the license is included in the file
.\" GPL3.
.\"
.\" A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
.\" Foundation Web site at http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL3.0-or-later OR FDL1.3-or-later
.\"
.Dd August 07, 2024
.Dt GNUNET-HELLO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm gnunet-hello
.Nd import/export print HELLOs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
.Op Fl h | -help
.Op Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
.Op Fl i | -import-hello
.Op Fl e | -export-hello
.Op Fl b | -binary
.Op Fl D | -dump-hellos
.Op Fl E Ar TIME | Fl -expiration= Ns Ar TIME
.Op Fl v | -version
.Op Fl V | -verbose
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool to import/export and print known HELLOs.
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c Ar FILENAME | Fl -config= Ns Ar FILENAME
Configuration file to use.
.It Fl h | -help
Print the help page.
.It Fl L Ar LOGLEVEL | Fl -loglevel= Ns Ar LOGLEVEL
Change the loglevel.
Possible values for LOGLEVEL are ERROR, WARNING, INFO and DEBUG.
.It Fl i | -import-hello
Import a HELLO (into the peerstore and make it available to core).
Reads from stdin.
.It Fl b | -binary
Output in binary format (for use with `--export').
.It Fl e | -export-hello
Print a freshly signed HELLO URI for our peer.
.It Fl D | -dump-hellos
Print all known HELLOs (peer IDs and addresses).
These are only all known, and not necessarily connected peers.
.It Fl E Ar TIME | Fl -expiration= Ns Ar TIME
Specifies expiration time of hello to export; format is relative time,
i.e "1 h" or "7 d 30 m".
Supported units are "ms", "s", "min" or "minutes", "h" (hours), "d"
(days) and "a" (years).
.It Fl v | -version
Print the version number.
.It Fl V | -verbose
Be verbose.
.El
.\".Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr gnunet-transport 1
.Pp
The full documentation for gnunet is maintained as a Texinfo manual.
If the
.Xr info 1
and gnunet programs are properly installed at your site, the command
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet
.Pp
should give you access to the complete handbook,
.Pp
.Dl info gnunet-c-tutorial
.Pp
will give you access to a tutorial for developers.
.sp
Depending on your installation, this information is also available in
.Xr gnunet 7 and
.Xr gnunet-c-tutorial 7 .
.\".Sh HISTORY
.\".Sh AUTHORS
.Sh BUGS
Report bugs by using
.Lk https://bugs.gnunet.org
or by sending electronic mail to
.Aq Mt gnunet-developers@gnu.org .
