\input texinfo
@setfilename libmicrohttpd2.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@include version.texi
@settitle The GNU libmicrohttpd2 Reference Manual
@c Unify all the indices into concept index.
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@copying
This manual is for GNU libmicrohttpd
(version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}), a library for embedding
an HTTP(S) server into C applications.

Copyright @copyright{} 2025 Christian Grothoff

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU
Free Documentation License".
@end quotation

We are grateful for financial support from the SovereignTechFund
(2024--2025) of the German government.
@end copying

@dircategory Software libraries
@direntry
* libmicrohttpd2: (libmicrohttpd2).       Embedded HTTP server library.
@end direntry

@c
@c Titlepage
@c
@titlepage
@title The GNU libmicrohttpd2 Reference Manual
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION}
@subtitle @value{UPDATED}
@author Christian Grothoff (@email{christian@@grothoff.org})
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@summarycontents
@contents

@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top The GNU libmicrohttpd2 Library
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex


@menu
* libmicrohttpd2-introduction::     Introduction.
* libmicrohttpd2-init::             Starting and stopping the HTTP daemon.
* libmicrohttpd2-doptions::         Configuring your HTTP daemon.
* libmicrohttpd2-external::         Using external event loops.
* libmicrohttpd2-requests::         Accessing client request data.
* libmicrohttpd2-actions::          Acting on HTTP requests.
* libmicrohttpd2-responses::        Generating HTTP responses.
* libmicrohttpd2-postprocessor::    Parsing POST data.
* libmicrohttpd2-authentication::   Using HTTP authentication.
* libmicrohttpd2-introspection::    Introspecting MHD objects.
* libmicrohttpd2-utility::          Utility functions.
* libmicrohttpd2-migration::        Migration from GNU libmicrohttpd 1.0.

Appendices

* GNU-LGPL::                    The GNU Lesser General Public License says how you
                                 can copy and share almost all of `libmicrohttpd2'.
* eCos License::                The eCos License says how you can copy and share some parts of `libmicrohttpd2'.
* GNU-GPL::                     The GNU General Public License (with eCos extension) says how you can copy and share some parts of `libmicrohttpd2'.
* GNU-FDL::                     The GNU Free Documentation License says how you
                                can copy and share the documentation of `libmicrohttpd2'.

Indices

* Concept Index::               Index of concepts and programs.
* Function and Data Index::     Index of functions, variables and data types.
* Type Index::                  Index of data types.
@end menu


@node libmicrohttpd2-introduction
@chapter Introduction
@include manual/introduction.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-init
@chapter Starting and stopping the HTTP daemon
@include manual/init.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-doptions
@chapter Configuring your HTTP daemon
@include manual/doptions.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-external
@chapter Using external event loops
@include manual/external.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-requests
@chapter Accessing client request data
@include manual/requests.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-actions
@chapter Reacting to HTTP requests with actions
@include manual/actions.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-responses
@chapter Responses to HTTP requests
@include manual/responses.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-postprocessor
@chapter Parsing HTML form data with the POST processor
@include manual/postprocessor.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-authentication
@chapter Using HTTP authentication
@include manual/authentication.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-introspection
@chapter Introspecting MHD objects.
@include manual/introspection.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-utility
@chapter Utility functions.
@include manual/utility.inc

@node libmicrohttpd2-migration
@chapter Migrating code to MHD2
@include manual/migration.inc


@c FIXME: document other options (connection, request, session)


@node GNU-LGPL
@unnumbered GNU-LGPL
@cindex license
@include lgpl.texi

@node eCos License
@unnumbered eCos License
@cindex license
@include ecos.texi

@node GNU-GPL
@unnumbered GNU General Public License
@cindex license
@include gpl-2.0.texi

@node GNU-FDL
@unnumbered GNU-FDL
@cindex license
@include fdl-1.3.texi

@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index

@printindex cp

@node Function and Data Index
@unnumbered Function and Data Index

@printindex fn

@node Type Index
@unnumbered Type Index

@printindex tp

@bye
